We could do the eating our vegetables
where we do everything the hard way first.
In the interest of time and attention,
I'm going to use Electron Forge to kind
of give us a solid foundation here.
Because, again, it will have a lot of
those processes wired up and ready to go.
And also I think it becomes useful cuz
it's a great way to look at it and
then be able to see how to
engineer that ourselves.
So I am going to pause for a minute, and
I would say that over here we've
got the three repositories.
The first one we're gonna use is
this one here called Firesale.
You don't need to download
anything over here,
these are just useful if you need it,
Electron Fiddle is useful.
First one we're gonna do is Markdown
Editor that we talked about earlier.
So I would say,
if you have not pulled it down and
done the requisite npm installs,
let's just do that for a moment.
We took a look at a just
first vanilla Electron app.
You will see that there is not a lot
different in this Electron Forge app.
But there are a few additional tasting
notes that we should talk about.
One is,
despite the fact that it doesn't look
that much different,
this is in TypeScript, right?
Like I said, most TypeScript these days,
you could probably copy and
paste this directly to JavaScript and
not have an issue whatsoever, right?
But this is technically a TypeScript file,
so we've got that in place.
Electron Forge is running
either Webpack or
a Vite server to do
the hot module reloading.
So we do have a dev server
that is running, and
so it is running localhost,
whatever it runs.
The Webpack version,
I think it's running at port 9000.
For the Vite version, I believe it's 5173.
Why that lives rent-free in my head, I
don't know, but I believe those are true.
Otherwise, it will go ahead and
try to load the compiled assets, right?
So that's just for us in development,
something that we have
in that case as well.
And then, at this moment,
I am choosing to load the Dev Tools
open in the detached mode.
Again, you can put in whatever mode
you want, you want it at the bottom,
you want it at the side.
These are not particularly big windows,
so I've chosen to detach it,
you can change that as you want.
And yeah, that's a createWindow function.
And then when the app is ready, when
it's fully started up, we go ahead and
create the window.
And we have very similar
to what we saw previously.
And that is my main process file,
and we will add to it.
Trust me,
we will add to it in our time together.
But that is the initial
kind of like first version.
A pattern that you'll see a lot too,
though, is,
as you can imagine, there is a period
of time between opening a window,
loading up the HTML and all the CSS and
stuff along those lines as well.
Which could theoretically give you the
flash of white content or what have you.
So there are ways around that, and
let's kinda just talk about that.
Cuz it gives you a sense of a little bit
more of the kind of model here as well.
So for instance,
we could theoretically choose to,
if we say show:false, that will not
show the window by default, right?
And we could at that point
say something along the lines
of, You've got this main
window ready to show.
And this is like, now, okay, we've got a
DOM, we've got everything kinda loaded up.
That's when we could
theoretically choose to show it.
Now, it depends like on what
you're doing in this case, but
I think it's a pretty solid
practice in this case.
And so the same way show was false,
we can call this a method here,
which is to show it.
And then you could also choose, for
instance, to focus it as well, right?
So load everything up while it's hidden,
and
then go ahead when it's ready to show it,
so on and so forth.
But we don't have a really
great use case for it, right?
But I do wanna kinda point out that the
ability to start up renderer processes and
not show them does at least open up
some interesting possibilities, right?
Cuz we said before,
renderer processes are Chromium,
they've got GPU acceleration support.
You can theoretically spin up threads
that don't necessarily show a window,
but could theoretically be doing image
processing or something along those lines.
You could have one that has maybe
a canvas that is resizing or
doing stuff to images, and
then message back and forth with that.
All those things become very involved.
But the ability to spin up processes and
not show them, and
not necessarily do the child
process dance in Node.
And have all of the Web APIs available and
stuff along those lines is
a relatively powerful concept as well.
And to point that out as well,
in any given browser context,
you again have all the Web APIs.
So all the service worker stuff, all
the shared workers, all the web workers,
right?
All of those things are available and
accessible to you in
your application as well.
A lot of those are very niche use cases,
if you need those things above and
beyond the standard kind of pieces.
Cuz we already have multiple processes
here, we've got the main process,
we've got the renderer processes.
We're gonna do everything asynchronous.
So we are taking advantage of a lot of
things that make JavaScript fast and
snappy to begin with.
But should you have
a very specific use case,
there is a lot of power and
flexibility here in what you can do.
So let's go ahead.
One of the things is that, yes, we have
Vite for our client-side processes.
But could you play with Nodemon or
something along those lines to
regenerate the app every time?
I'm choosing not to for
the name of simplicity.
But in this case,
now we do still show it, but we wait for
the DOM to load before we see anything.
That's a little tweak there that I think,
generally speaking,
I tend to use a lot, which is this once.
A lot of these things extend from
Node.js Event Emitter, right?
And so we're saying one time when
the window is ready to show, all right,
actually go and show it, and
stuff along those lines.
And like I said, if you don't
want the Developer Tools opening,
you can totally just get rid of this.
Cuz they are always accessible to you by
default in the actual View menu as well.
So I will leave that to you
whether you want it or not.
At various times I will turn it off and
turn it on depending on what kind
of point that I'm trying to make.